although basic human rights principles enjoy universal agreement , the gap between rhetoric and reality is wide indeed .
although commonly seen as an issue of economic and social rights , the experience of the poor is as likely to be marked by repression as by economic deprivation and indeed the two are interlinked .
we have also provided guidance and made our expertise available , although not as systematically as required .
but eventhough the evidence is persuasive that this unlocks resources which are critical for the millennium development goals , it still falls far short of what is needed .
the prolonged absence of the president of the national assembly , eventhough he had been specifically invited to return and eventhough all the other members of his delegation had already come back , had heightened the feelings of uncertainty and insecurity .
concerning the military component , the advisory committee was informed that eventhough a recurrence of fighting on the island is extremely unlikely , the potential for minor , local violence and challenges to the ceasefire regime still exist .
meanwhile , over 40 countries have been scarred by violent conflict .
meanwhile , there are more immediate actions that we can and should take now .
meanwhile , the mission has ordered additional items to enhance the security of the addis ababa headquarters ” .
such a structure would offer architectural and conceptual clarity , since the united nations already has councils that deal with two other main purposes — security and development .
in addition , an expanded ohchr field presence may itself help to create conflict resolution opportunities since engagements with belligerents on human rights issues create space for discussion of political issues .
it is difficult for ohchr to speculate in detail how the creation of a human rights council would impact on our work since so many of the details concerning the scope , power and composition of the body are still under discussion .
though engagement with countries is key , ohchr must also be active at the global level , shaping and contributing to the international debate on issues relevant to the protection of human rights .
states find it onerous to report separately to different treaty bodies , often on very similar or overlapping issues ( though agreement on an expanded core document would reduce this burden ) .
often , though , it is the demands and requirements of the contingent commanders that have the greatest impact on the conduct of the contingent troops .
while this capacity has attained an unhealthy degree of politicization — which the proposed peer review function of the human rights council should address — the ability to address serious situations must be retained and revived .
while a given country is on the agenda of the security council , the work of the peacebuilding commission would have to remain within the purview of that body .
while the present plan of action focuses on ohchr , the overall goal must be to strengthen all aspects of the united nations human rights programme , the various components of which are interdependent .
the special committee urges those states that have notyet done so to consider becoming parties to the convention on the safety of united nations and associated personnel .
yet at this very point there is a gaping hole in the united nations institutional machinery : no part of the united nations system effectively addresses the challenge of helping countries with the transition from war to lasting peace .
