it is positive to see that reforms and moderate increases in labour costs have helped to bring about higher employment and lower unemployment in recent years , although progress has been uneven across eu member states .
although annual m3 growth of still above 10 % overstates the underlying pace of monetary expansion , owing to the impact of the flat yield curve and other temporary factors , nonetheless , even after taking such effects into account , a broad-based assessment of the latest data confirms that the underlying rate of money and credit growth remains strong .
at the same time , higher short-term interest rates have served to moderate the growth of household borrowing , although cooling housing markets in several parts of the euro area have also played a substantial role in this regard .
although other factors are also at work , some support for this proposition may be found in the fact that eu regulatory regimes which allow for competition between exchanges and other forms of trading method are characterised by higher stock market capitalisation ( 170 % of gdp ) and liquidity ( as measured by turnover 407 % of gdp ) when compared to member states which favour trading on-exchange ( 80 % and 130 % respectively ) .
however , updated stability programmes foresee only moderate progress with fiscal consolidation in the coming years .
this change should not , however , prevent those ncbs that have data for years before 1995 from reporting them on a voluntary basis .
the start date should now be advanced to 1995 , however , due to limited availability
such advice shall , however , not release the member of staff from his / her external liability .
however , there continue to be upside risks to price stability , relating mainly to oil price developments and their potential to lead to second-round effects stemming from wage and price-setting behaviour .
however , upside risks to price stability over the medium term need to be monitored closely .
it is not intended , however , that the agreement will provide for the possibility of financial institutions located in andorra having access to eurosystem monetary policy operations .
however , these developments , which support household disposable income and consumption , are unlikely to fully compensate the loss of purchasing power caused by higher energy and food prices .
however , the growth of bank loans to non-financial corporations has remained very robust despite the rises in short-term rates .
recent reverses suffered by equity markets do not weaken the case for market-based financing . however , they highlight the importance of a robust legal and regulatory framework if investor confidence and liquidity are to be nurtured and financial markets are to thrive .
however , these measures are a necessary but not a sufficient condition for allowing effective cross-border interaction of all potential buy and sell interests in a given instrument .
however , they account for only 1 % of equity trading volumes in the eu ( a much lower share of equity transactions than in us ) ;
however , the experience with the retail service providers in the uk demonstrates that off-exchange execution can deliver price improvements for retail investors in 7 out of 10 trades .
however , transparency may come at a price in terms of reduced liquidity provision to market participants .
however , these conflicts of interest may be exacerbated where the investment firm has an active strategy of internalising client order flow and minimising the orders that have to be finalised on-exchange .
however , limiting regulatory arbitrage does not amount to a case for blanket application of exchange-type regulation to other systems of methods of executing investor orders .
